# Nederlandse VolksPartij

For civics classes we were tasked with starting a fake political party (for the Netherlands). For this a few subtasks were required and I was tasked with the graphical design aspects. This including the logo, the campaign video and the website. The logo is visible on the homepage of this site and was done by myself completely, I had done some sketches before this final draft that looked somewhat boring (according to me and my group) when we landed on this design. The website itself isn't as complex as the Lua site I made for computer science but then again I was procrastinating massively, started the day before the deadline and who really visits the website of a (fake) political party at night? I noticed that the website of real political parties looked [really](https://www.fvd.nl/) [quite](https://pvv.nl/) [bad](https://www.50pluspartij.nl/) so I wasn't really able to take any inspiration from existing websites. To account for that and because I was extremely bored during the classes themselves I made some rough sketches for 3 designs, my group and I picked the best one out from those and I converted it to a real design (I used Adobe XD for this). After getting _some_ feedback I started programming the website and quickly re-realized I started way too late and needed help. Cue the entrance of the amazing [@LilyKhan](https://github.com/Lilykhan786). She helped me with a massive part of this website and without her I would have probably never been able to finish this project.

## The specifics

Sadly, I wasn't able to perfect the JavaScript in such a way that it would've updated and counted down to the next election because the date changes in an inconsistent and unpredictable way. If our cabinet crashes (which happens quite often), the election has to be planned in as quick as possible, the actual date in the month of March changes somewhat, etc. This meant that the function is hardcoded and needs to be changed every new election date.

As for the explanation for the logo:

  * The colors
  I first tried to use the original colors of the Dutch flag but they were a little too contrasting with each other and didn't fit on many backgrounds. Therefore I chose to give the colors other shades so that they also hurt the eyes a little less. First I put it on an orange background so it would be more in line with the Dutch colors and so it would only work on one background but it was too dull and didn't really work in my opinion.
  * The form
  I first planned to make a lion but it didn't fit the base of the logo I had and would be way too complex a figure to get right, I had this simpler and a more geometric look but that wouldn't fit the idea of the logo. In the end I decided to use the whole of the Netherlands, I had first done this without all the islands and Flevoland and smoothed out all the edges a bit but that didn't quite work either, so then just made it. On the left side it would maybe look a bit cleaner/cleaner but I put it on the right because we are a "pragmatic relatively extreme right" party, relatively with the rest of the logo the Netherlands is on the extreme right. I also made the figure this size so it is seen equally, because Holland is central to our party and goes over the bar of the name and slogan; "With us, you come first" (this is it literally translated, there's no actual NSFW meaning intended whatsoever). Overall, it became a more typographic based logo because that's what I've noticed with many other parties as well; typographic based with a central figure.
